---
layout: project
title: NEA Clean & Green Hackathon 2015
image_path: 
orderid: 12
date: 2015-06-19
blurb: 'Help make Singapore a truly clean city and a "Zero Waste Nation" by creating solutions that enable behavioural or mindset change.'
---
{% include image-full.html file="/2015/5/nea-1.jpg" alt="Group Photo" height="400px" type="full" %}
<p class='sublead'>This is the fourth run of Clean & Green Hackathon 2015 co-organised by UP Singapore and the National Environment Agency which saw about 150 participants taking part. The event focused on the themes of reducing litter at sporting and leisure events and neighbourhoods as well as reducing and recycling waste towards achieving Sustainable Singapore Blueprint 2015 target.</p>
<!--more-->

### The Brief
Singapore has been recognised internationally for being a clean and green city, with public education on anti-littering ongoing since 1968. However, there is still much that needs to be done to turn Singapore from a “cleaned” city to a truly clean city where everyone respects the environment and one another by taking active steps to ensure our shared spaces are litter-free. Along with public cleanliness challenge, the amount of waste generated in Singapore has risen rapidly & will continue to rise with population & economic growth. At the current rate of waste growth, a new waste-to-energy plant is required every 7 - 10 years, while new offshore landfill is required every 30 - 35 years. This will not be sustainable given scarcity of land in Singapore. 

Singapore’s overall recycling rate was 60% in 2014 and only 19% of the waste generated by households is recycled. A significant increase is needed in order to achieve the target of 70% overall recycling rate by 2030. How might we better create awareness of the need to reduce waste and improve recycling habit in homes & businesses? 

### Idea: Project Baggins
*Universal, Perpetual Reward System for your Eco-friendly Behavior*
{% include image-full.html file="/2015/5/screenshots-app.png" alt="App Demo" height="350px" %}
We created system that uses Blockchain technology to keep track of users’ eco-friendly actions and corresponding rewards. Users have a personal, permanent and secure record of their eco-friendly behaviour. Any corporate / agency can use this system to sponsor campaigns that encourage and reward good behaviour.

### Result
{% include image-full.html file="/2015/5/nea-2.jpg" alt="Award" height="400px"  %}
Project Baggins was awarded Best Technology Prize.



